PainKeep 1.1 to 1.11 patch installation instructions
http://www.planetquake.com/skins/painkeep

This document includes:

1. Running the 1.1 to 1.11 patch
2. What's new in 1.11
3. Map exclusion and play order control
4. Manual installation of the 1.1 to 1.11 patch

The full version of PainKeep 1.11 without the InstallShield setup should
be available on http://www.planetquake.com/skins/painkeep by the time
you read this document. If you prefer to use this patch, please read the
documentation carefully. It has been extensively tested and works in all
tested cases. 

Unzip the contents of PK111UP.ZIP into the directory where you have
PainKeep 1.1 installed. 

*IMPORTANT*: The patch will not work unless you have PainKeep 1.1
installed AND you extract the contents of PK111UP.ZIP into the directory
where it is installed. If you experience any problems I highly suggest
you delete your PainKeep directory, reinstall from the original 1.1
files and then run the 1.1 to 1.11 patch. 

Next, run the file PATCH.BAT in your PAINKEEP directory. This will add
and update files in the PainKeep PAK0.PAK file, and then completely
remove and clean up all unnecessary files upon completion. 

This process can take a long time. Please be patient. If you experience
any problems, please refer to the MANUAL INSTALLATION instructions
further in this document. 


What's New in 1.11
------------------
We knew of a couple bugs immediately after releasing 1.1, but we sat on
all the incoming reports until we had enough to make a final build of
PainKeep. There have been relatively few issues and most painkeep
servers are running well. Unless we have overlooked something huge, this
will be the final release of PainKeep. We are satisfied that it is at
least the quality of any of the commercial Quake offerings with this
release. 

- Solaris Quake crash upon loading (BSP alignment errors)
- Rare Linux crash
- Several small bugs squashed
- Map PK16 problems corrected
- MAP PK17 full vis'd for transparent lava
- Recompiled and tested with QW 2.0 source
- A few performance improvements

- not our fix, but glQuakeWorld performance in levels with large open
areas will be improvedwith the 2.0 release of the glQW client (despite
some comments to the contrary, all levels in PainKeep have low r_speeds
and were thoroughly tested before release to ensure they were playable
with 250ms ping times with QW. Because we were the first to release with
re-vis'd levels for transparency effects, many people experienced the
glQW slowdowns with larger areas with PainKeep first and mistakenly
attributed the problem to PK) 

- A quick note about Entity Number >= 512 errors. This is caused by
exceeding the maximum number of entities allowed by Quake. If you get a
net game going and have 16 guys all using the grappling gun and firing
the pulse nailguns like crazy it can crash the server. PainKeep does use
more entities than regular Quake to add its weapons and effects. There
is nothing we can do about this issue. It isn't a real common problem,
but the surest way to prevent it is to set maxclients to 8 or so.

- Finally, not every PainKeep map (or any map for that matter), plays
well for every player or server. We have added a feature to the PainKeep
server that allows admins to select both what levels are played and in
what order. So slower servers can select all the smaller levels, or
admins that get a lot of gripes about a specific level can turn them off
selectively without having to recompile.

MAP exclusion and play order control
------------------------------------
non-QuakeWorld Quake:

To enable custom maps add 512 to the "temp1" variable.

When the map needs to change it executes a "pknextmap" command on the
console. To control the next map played you need to setup "alias"
commands for "pknextmap". 


For example:

	temp1 512
	alias pkmap1 "alias pknextmap "";alias pknextmap pkmap2;changelevel pk4"
	alias pkmap2 "alias pknextmap "";alias pknextmap pkmap3;changelevel pk10"
	alias pkmap3 "alias pknextmap "";alias pknextmap pkmap1;changelevel painkeep"
	alias pknextmap pkmap1
	start painkeep


QuakeWorld:

Although we had this fully implemented and tested, Zoid beat us to it
and the latest version of QW now has this support built in.  The QW implementation
is very elegant and works well.

The only unique point with PainKeep is that if the votehub is enabled,
level rotation set with localinfo will be ignored. Here is a snippet of
text from the 2.0 release about how to setup level rotation. It works
exactly the same with PainKeep.

Map rotation using localinfo, syntax is localinfo [frommap] [tomap]. An example:
localinfo e1m2 dm2
localinfo dm2 dm4
localinfo dm4 dm6
localinfo dm6 e1m2
would loop e1m2, dm2, dm4, dm6. If the last map does not point to the first the 
map switching continues as normal.


Manual Installation of PainKeep 1.1 to 1.11 patch
-------------------------------------------------
Unpack the PAK0.PAK file that is located in your PainKeep 1.1 directory.
For purposes of this document, I will use and refer to XPAK which is
freely available from: 

ftp://ftp.cdrom.com/pub/idgames2/utils/bsp_pak_tools/xpak041.zip


1. Copy the contents of PK111UP.ZIP into the directory where painkeep is installed. 
2. Unpak PAK0.PAK in the painkeep dir. Now rename PAK0.PAK to
   PAK0.OLD (just in case)
3. Extract the contents of DATA.EXE using the -s, -d and -o switches.  This will 
  overwrite some older files.  This file is also encrypted to prevent stupid users
  from running it incorrectly.  The password is "pk111" without the quotes.

	note: if you are running on a non-x86 platform, you can unzip the contents 
	of this file exactly the same way as any .zip file.   i.e. unzip -d -o -spk111 data.exe

4. In your painkeep dir, run the executable BSPALIGN against all the files in your map dir.
	i.e.  BSPALIGN \maps\painkeep.bsp

	note: if you are running on a non-x86 platform, the source for BSPALIGN has been
	included.  Just compile BSPALIGN.C
	*VERY IMPORTANT* make  sure that the instructions include undefining "INTEL" at the top of
        the bspalign source when compiling on sun (actually, any reversed  byte order machines (or 
        is Intel the one that's reversed?  <g>)).  otherwise your positions and sizes 
        will not be byteswapped, and bad things will happen.

5. Optional: you can now re-PAK everything and you are done.  If you choose not to do this, everything
	will still work the same.  If you do PAK everything up, you can delete all the sub directories. 

	note: distributed versions of PainKeep PAK0.PAK files only contain the files listed below.  All
	other files are stored outside the PAK for easy updating:
	
	<DIR>GFX
	<DIR>MAPS
	<DIR>PROGS
	<DIR>SOUND
	DEFAULT .CFG
	GFX     .WAD
	PKDEMO1 .DEM
	PKDEMO2 .DEM
	PKDEMO3 .DEM
	PKDEMO4 .DEM
	PKDEMO5 .DEM
	PKDEMO6 .DEM
	PKDEMO7 .DEM
	PKDEMO8 .DEM
	QUAKE   .RC



Credits:
XPAK source used by permission.
# XPak v0.4.1; 96/07/30. (c) Tom Wheeley; <splitbung>, tomw@tsys.demon.co.uk; 
A couple bug fixes by Ken Alverson.

BSPALIGN
written by Ken Alverson

