---------------------------------------------------------------------
 PainKeep 1.1 Frequently Asked Questions.               revision 003

 PainKeep - http://www.planetquake.com/skins/painkeep/
 Team Evolve - http://www.deltix.com/evolve/
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Q: Why is PainKeep free; it's a professional product that I would
   have paid money for.
A: Because it was always promised as free.

Q: I can't wait to try out the new weapons and maps but I can't find
   any PainKeep servers on the 'net.
A: Grab yourself a copy of QSpy - http://www.quakespy.com/ - and grab
   yourself a copy of the custom server configuration tab for
   PainKeep at - http://www.deltix.com/evolve/files/PainKeep.qst

Q: glQW PainKeep seems slow on some of the levels with large open areas?

A: The levels with large open areas that slow down in
   glQuakeWorld will be improve greatly with the next release of the glQW
   client (as of this writing the latest released version is 1.64). We
   talked with Zoid and Morbid at QuakeCon and their newest improvements
   should make all the levels play in glQuake as well as they do in regular
   DOS/WIN Quake. (despite some comments to the contrary, all levels in
   PainKeep have low r_speeds and were thoroughly tested before release to
   ensure they were playable with 250ms ping times with QW. Because we were
   the first to release with re-vis'd levels, many people experienced the
   glQW slowdowns with larger areas with PainKeep first and mistakenly 
 attributed the problem to PK)

Q: We were playing a raging net game with lots of players and got a server crash.
A: A quick note about Entity Number >= 512 errors. This is caused by
   exceeding the maximum number of entities allowed by Quake. If you get a
   net game going and have 16 guys all using the grappling gun and firing
   the pulse nailguns like crazy it can crash the server. PainKeep does use
   more entities than regular Quake to add the weapons and effects. There
   is nothing we can do about this issue. It isn't a real common problem,
   but the surest way to prevent it is to set maxclients to 8 or so.

Q: Transparent water doesn't seem to work!?! Or The water isn't transparent?
A: Pull down the console and type "R_WATERALPHA 0.4" without the quotes.
   You can add this to your AUTOEXEC.CFG file and it will always be enabled.
   Use "R_SHADOWS 1" to enable shadows.

Q: GLQuake transparent water support isn't fair for players that are
   not running glQuake as they cannot see through water.
A: Tough.  We decided that a much larger audience wanted to play with
   transparent water and there is no way to support disabling this effect
   without removing it altogether. (there is nothing like seeing some guy
   trucking along under water and sending a rocket down after him!!)

Q: I connected to a PainKeep server but Quake was stuck at the
   console. I could talk and recieve messages but not play.
A: You need to specify to use PainKeep on the command line -
   (win)quake -game painkeep.  If you are using QuakeWorld, make
   sure the directory where you keep painkeep is the same as on
   the server you wish to play.  (this is usually just \painkeep)

Q: I have no internet and no LAN and no modem and no friends. Is
   there a "bot" for PainKeep?
A: Not yet. We are playing around with that idea but don't expect
   anything too soon 'cause we are working on other things...

Q: I don't like/understand the votehub mode.  How do I turn it off?
A: Change the map on the server to any map except START.BSP.  Or at the
   server you can type PK_HUB (impulse 200) to toggle hub support on/off.
   If you are running a QW server, in server.cfg just set the map value
   to any map other than START.BSP.  Doing any of the above will make
   maps begin and end like regular Quake.

Q: How does the Harpoon Gun work?
A: This all depends on what it hits.

Q: If it the harpoon hits a object (eg. health, other player, ammo) what
   happens?
A: If it hits objects the harpoon gun returns dragging the object back.
   Because the "bounding box" for objects like "health" & "ammo" are very
   small (smaller than the object displays) it can be hard to hit.

Q: If it hits a wall what happens?
A: This depends on if you have the "fire" button held down.  If the fire
   button is held down then the harpoon returns to you.   If it doesn't then
   it sticks in a wall.

Q: The harpoon it suck in the wall, now what can I do?
A: Pressing fire again will drag you to the harpoon.  As soon as you reach
   the harpoon it is let go, this was to reduce camping :)

Q: Can we "release" the harpoon when being dragged to it, or when dragging
   objects to me?
A: Yes. Pressing fire while it is being "something" is being dragged will
   "release" the harpoon.

Q: I'm firing at a wall but it doesn't stick!!!!
A: There is a maximum length the harpoon rope has (1500 quake units).  When
   it reaches this length it always returns to you.

Q: Is there a way to release the harpoon when it is stuck in a wall?
A: Yes, see IMPULSES.TXT

Q: I don't like the default key for XXX, can I change it?
A: All weapons have unique impulse values that can be defined as any key.

Q: I have made the coolest deathmatch map in the history of mankind.
   How do I PainKeep-ize it?
A: Get the map authors entity guide at -
   http://www.planetquake.com/skins/painkeep/element.zip

Q: Are you going to keep adding stuff to PainKeep and release a new
   version every week until you run out of numerals and letters to
   use?
A: No.  1.1 is hopefully the last release.  We've done all we originally intended
   and then some.  We now feel it is equal in gameplay and quality to
   the other "mission packs" out there.   Time to move on.

Q: I really like (blah blah) patch soo much, can you put it in the
   next version of PainKeep?
A: No. But the source code for PainKeep is publicly avaliable, and
   you, or somebody smarter, can integrate the (blah blah) patch.

Q: Why are PROGS.DAT and QWPROGS.DAT not in the PAK file?
A: This allows us to update PK code by just posting a 200K file and not another
   13 meg monster.

Q: How can I make sure I know when new stuff is available?
A: Subscribe to our mailing list at -
   http://www.deltix.com/evolve/input/maillist.html - or visit our
   news page every other day at - http://www.deltix.com/evolve/news/

Q: HEY! I found a bug with PainKeep!
A: Tell us. We need you to tell us the command that caused it, a
   description of what you were doing at the time, what map you were
   on, and a screenshot if possible (press F12 to take a screenshot -
   this is especially important if it crashed and just left you with
   the console)

Q: I was running a server and it crashed, damn you.
A: See above.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
